.TH AUR-QUERY 1 2022-02-25 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-query \- send requests to the aurweb RPC interface
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur query"
.OP \-t type
.OP \-b by
.IR pkgname " [" pkgname... ]
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-query
retrieves package information from an AUR endpoint by sending HTTP GET
or POST requests to the
.UR https://\:aur.archlinux.org/\:rpc.php
RPC interface
.UE
with
.BR curl(1).
.PP
Arguments are taken from the command-line. If the first argument is
.B \-
or
.BR /dev/stdin ,
arguments are taken from standard input. JSON responses are delimited by
newlines (JSON Lines).
.PP
For
.B search
type requests, the intersection of results is taken by default.
.
.SH OPTIONS
The request type and arguments must be compatible to the chosen RPC version (see the
.B AUR_QUERY_RPC_VERSION
environment variable). The options below assume
.BR "RPC v5" .
.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-by=\fR<KIND>
Arguments for package search
.RB ( \-\-type=search ).
Can be one of
.BR name ,
.BR name\-desc ,
.BR maintainer ,
.BR depends ,
.BR makedepends ,
.BR optdepends ,
or
.BR checkdepends .
.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-type=\fR<NAME>
Type of request. Can be one of
.B search
or
.BR info .
.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-any
Return the set union of results instead of the intersection. Applies to
.B search
requests. The result is a single JSON structure, delimited by a newline.
.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-exit\-if\-empty
If no results are found, exit with status 1 instead of 0.
.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-raw
Do not process results. Implied by
.BR \-\-type=info .
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B aur\-query
returns 0 if no errors occurred, 1 if no results were found
.I and
the
.B \-\-exit\-if\-empty
option is specified,
and 2 if a request resulted in an error
.RB ( type=error ).
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUR_LOCATION
The URI of the AUR endpoint. Defaults to
.IR https://\:aur.archlinux.org .
.
.TP
.B AUR_QUERY_PARALLEL
If set to a positive value, transfers are done with
.BR "curl \-\-parallel" .
This requires
.BR curl (1)
version >=7.77.0.
.
.TP
.B AUR_QUERY_PARALLEL_MAX
The amount of maximal parallel transfers (defaults to 15). Translates to
.BR "curl \-\-parallel\-max" .
.
.TP
.B AUR_QUERY_RPC
The URI of the RPC interface. Defaults to
.IR "$AUR_LOCATION/rpc/?v=5" .
.
.TP
.B AUR_QUERY_RPC_POST
If set to a positive value, use HTTP POST for requests.
Defaults to
.IR 1 .
.RS
.PP
For info-type requests, more packages can be queried in a single
request with HTTP POST than with HTTP GET, and this approach is
preferable especially when querying large numbers of packages.
.RE
.
.TP
.B AUR_QUERY_RPC_SPLITNO
The amount of packages listed per URI when using HTTP GET for info-type
requests. This is used to avoid HTTP 414 errors with larger sets (>200)
of packages
.RI ( FS#49089 ).
Defaults to
.IR 150 .
.
.TP
.B AUR_QUERY_RPC_SPLITNO_POST
The amount of packages in the message body when using HTTP POST for
info-type requests. Defaults to
.IR 2000 .
This value should not be set higher than 5000 (the maximum amount of
package results in an
.B info
request).
.
.TP
.B AUR_QUERY_RPC_VERSION
The version for the RPC endpoint. Defaults to
.IR 5 .
.
.SH NOTES
The default set of options for
.BR curl (1)
are
.BR "\-A aurutils \-fgLsSq" .
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur\-depends (1),
.BR aur\-search (1),
.BR aur\-vercmp (1),
.BR curl (1),
.BR jq (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
