.TH AUR-BUILD-NSPAWN 1 2018-02-01 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-build\-nspawn \- build packages to a local repository inside a chroot

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur build\-nspawn"
.OP \-C pacman_conf
.OP \-D directory
.OP \-M makepkg_conf
.OP \-d database
.OP \-u
.OP \--
[\fImakechrootpkg args\fR]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
Build packages in an nspawn container, adding the results to a local
repository. See also \fBaur\-build\fR(1).

.SH OPTIONS
All arguments after \-\- are passed to \fBmakechrootpkg\fR.

.TP
.BI "\-C " pacman_conf
The \fIpacman.conf\fR file to be used in the container. Defaults to
\fIpacman-extra.conf\fR from devtools.

.TP
.BI "\-D " directory
The base directory for containers. This directory usually contains a
\fB/root\fR subdirectory that serves as template for user containers
(named after \fI$SUDO_USER\fR, or \fB/copy\fR if unset).

.TP
.BI "\-M " makepkg_conf
The makepkg.conf file to be used in the container. Defaults to
\fImakepkg\-<machine>.conf\fR from devtools.

.TP
.BI "\-d " database
Check if the specified repository is configured in the /root container.
Only effective for \fB-u\fR.

.TP
.B \-u
Update or create the /root copy of the container; do not build a package.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Packages are placed in the directory specified in \fBPKGDEST\fR. If not
set, the current directory (\fI$PWD\fR) is used. See also
\fBmakepkg.conf\fR(5).

.SH NOTES
.SS Building with \fBmakechrootpkg\fR
Changes to the pacman database are \fInot\fR propagated from the
container to the local system. Packages must be installed and updated
separately, typically through \fBpacman \-Syu \fIpackage_name\fR.

Package conflicts inside the container must be solved manually, as
\fBmakechrootpkg\fR uses \fBmakepkg \-\-confirm \-s\fR internally. For
example, to replace \fIgcc\fR with \fIgcc-multilib\fR, run \fBarch\-nspawn
/var/lib/aurbuild/root pacman \-S gcc\-multilib\fR as root.

Signature verification requires that \fBgpg2\fR(1) configuration is
stored in \fI~/.gnupg\fR. See Github issue #151 for details.

.SS Building for a different architecture
To build packages for a different architecture, prepend \fBsetarch
\fIarch\fR to the aurbuild command line. The target architecture must
both be supported by the current system (run \fBsetarch \-\-list\fR for an
approximation) and have a respective \fImakepkg.conf\fR file available
in \fI/usr/share/devtools\fR (such as
\fI/usr/share/devtools/makepkg\-i686.conf\fR for \fIi686\fR).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aur (1),
.BR aur\-build (1),
.BR pacconf (1),
.BR pacman (1),
.BR makepkg.conf (5),
.BR pacman.conf (5),
.BR setarch (8)

.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME

.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
