.TH AUR-GRAPH 1 2020-11-08 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-graph \- print package/dependency directed graph
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur graph"
.RB [ .SRCINFO ...]
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-graph
prints out a partial ordering of packages (tab-separated)
.RB ( pkgbase )
specified in
.B .SRCINFO
files. If no files are listed on the command-line, input
is taken from standard input.
.
.SH OPTIONS
Options can be specified with the
.B \-v
parameter. Every option requires a single
.B \-v
parameter prepending it.
.
.TP
.BR CHECKDEPENDS=[1|0] ", " DEPENDS=[1|0] ", " MAKEDEPENDS=[1|0]
When enabled (set to
.BR 1 ),
list included
.BR checkdepends ,
.BR depends ,
or
.BR makedepends .
For a split package, only global dependencies corresponding to
.B pkgbase
are printed. Defaults to
.BR 0
for
.B CHECKDEPENDS
and
.BR 1
for
.B DEPENDS
and
.BR MAKEDEPENDS .
.
.TP
.B PRINTALL=[0,1]
List all global dependencies for a
.BR pkgbase .
Any encountered dependencies are printed as-is, that is, no version
comparisons are done by
.BR aur\-graph ,
nor are results limited to
.B pkgbase
encountered in specified
.B .SRCINFO
files.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B aur\-graph
supports
.B provides
and versioned dependencies. This can be used to verify output from
tools with no or limited support for such dependencies, for example
.BR aur\-depends (1):
.PP
.EX
    $ mkdir build; cd build
    $ aur depends <package> | xargs -d '\\n' aur fetch
    $ aur graph */.SRCINFO >/dev/null
.EE
.PP
.B aur\-graph
output is suitable as input for
.BR tsort (1),
provided no cycles are present. The resulting topologically ordered
list can be used to build packages in the correct order. For example:
.PP
.EX
    $ cd build
    $ aur graph */.SRCINFO | tsort | tac > deps.txt
    $ aur build -a deps.txt
.EE
.PP
To improve performance,
.B .SRCINFO
files may be concatenated before processing:
.PP
.EX
    $ cat */.SRCINFO | aur graph | tsort | tac
.EE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur (1),
.BR aur\-build (1),
.BR aur\-depends (1),
.BR awk (1),
.BR tac (1),
.BR tsort (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
