.TH AUR-DEPENDS 1 2023-03-10 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-depends \- retrieve dependencies using aurweb
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur depends"
.OP \-anrtJ
.IR "pkgname [pkgname...]"
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-depends
solves dependencies for packages provided on the command line using
.BR aur\-query (1).
If a hyphen is specified, packages are taken from standard input.
.PP
The transitive closure of dependencies within AUR is computed, with
Dependency information printed to standard output as edges
.IR \%pkgbase\etdepends .
By default,
.I depends
resolves to
.BR pkgbase .
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all ", " \-\-show\-all
Include direct
.BR pacman (8)
dependencies of dependencies in the output. Implies
.BR \-\-pkgname .
.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-pkgname
Print dependency information to stdout as
.BR pkgname
instead of
.BR pkgbase .
Unless
.B \-\-all
is specified, only AUR dependencies are printed.
.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-table
Print dependency information in the following format:
.IP
.IR \%pkgname\etdepends\etpkgbase\etpkgver\ettype
.IP
where
.I type
is one of
.BR Self ,
.BR Depends ,
.BR MakeDepends ,
.BR CheckDepends
and
.BR OptDepends .
.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reverse
Print
.I \%depends\etpkgbase
pairs as input for
.BR tsort (1).
When combined with
.BR \-\-table ,
the
.I depends
column is replaced with reverse dependencies
.RI ( requiredby ).
Version information is left out in this case. When combined with
.BR \-\-all ,
unknown reverse dependencies are marked with a hyphen.
.
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-json
Print dependency information as JSON.
.
.BR \-\-jsonl
Print dependency information as JSON Lines (newline delimited JSON).
.
.SS Dependency options
When resolving dependencies,
.B aur\-depends
considers all types (
.IR depends ,
.IR makedepends ,
and
.IR checkdepends )
of dependencies by default.
.I optdepends
can be taken into account with the
.BR \-\-optdepends
option.
.PP
Types can be removed selectively with
the
.BR \-\-no\-depends ,
.BR \-\-no\-makedepends ,
and
.B \-\-no\-checkdepends
options. In particular, these options may be used to bypass cycles
between dependencies of differing types.
.PP
Support for virtual dependencies
.RI ( provides )
can be disabled with the
.B \-\-no\-provides
option. In particular, any packages listed on the command-line can
only provide themselves with this option enabled.
.
.PP
Dependencies can be removed selectively with the
.BR \-\-assume\-installed
option.
.
.SH NOTES
While versioned dependencies are listed, they are ignored when
resolving the dependency graph. This is because versioned queries are
not supported by aurweb, and no additional comparisons are done by
.BR aur\-depends .
The resulting
.B .SRCINFO
files can however be checked for consistency with
.BR aur\-graph (1).
See
.B FS#54906
for details.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur (1),
.BR aur\-graph (1),
.BR aur\-query (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
