.TH AUR-VIEW 1 2022-03-12 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-view \- inspect git repositories
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur view"
.OP \-a arg_file
.OP \-\-format
.IR repository ...
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-view
presents
.BR git (1)
repositories stored in a common directory for inspection. Only
repositories whose names match
.BR aur\-view
arguments are shown.
.PP
The used file manager or pager is determined in the following order:
.IP \(bu 4
The value of
.BR AUR_PAGER ", "
if defined;
.IP \(bu 4
.BR vifm "(1), "
if installed.
.PP
Should the exit status of the pager exceed 0 (for example,
through the
.B :cq
command in
.BR vifm ),
.B aur\-view
terminates immediately.
.PP
On a successful exit of the pager, the inspected
.BR git (1)
revisions are stored in
.BR $XDG_DATA_HOME/aurutils/view ,
or the path in the
.B AUR_VIEW_DB
environment variable, if set. These revisions are then used to
generate diffs with
.BR git\-diff (1)
or
.BR git\-log (1). Any changes to
.B .SRCINFO
and
.B .gitignore
files are ignored.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-format
Can be one of
.B diff
or
.BR log ,
to generate diffs with
.BR git\-diff (1)
and
.BR git\-log (1),
respectively.
.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-patch
Suppress patch output, only showing a summary.
.
.TP
.BI \-\-revision= REV
The revision used for comparing changes. Defaults to
.IR HEAD .
.
.TP
.BI \-a " FILE" "\fR,\fP \-\-arg\-file=" FILE
A textfile describing git repositories relative to the current
directory. If unspecified, repositories are taken from the
command-line.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUR_VIEW_DB
The directory where inspected
.BR git (1)
revisions are stored. Defaults to
.BR $XDG_DATA_HOME/aurutils/view .
.
.TP
.B AUR_PAGER
The file manager used to view and edit build files. This variable is
split on white space to allow program options, for example:
.IR "AUR_PAGER=less \-K" .
If unset,
.B aur\-view
defaults to
.BR vifm (1).
This two-pane file manager allows to quickly navigate between files in
the left pane, and file previews in the right pane. Simultaneously,
files can be edited with
.BR vim (1).
Other comparable file managers include
.BR mc (1),
.BR nnn (1),
.BR ranger (1),
and
.BR xplr (1).
.
.TP
.B AUR_CONFIRM_PAGER
Display an additional prompt after the file manager has exited (see
.BR AUR_PAGER ).
If set, display an additional confirmation prompt after the file
manager has exited successfully. This may be used for (GUI) file
managers not supporting an exit status greater zero to indicate
unreviewed files.
.
.SH NOTES
After browsing to a different directory in the file manager, the view on
argument directories is replaced by a view on the original directory. To
alleviate this issue (and support file managers taking only a single directory
as argument),
.B aur\-view
keeps a list of symbolic links in a temporary directory, which point to
argument repositories. This directory also includes any generated diffs.
.PP
If the upstream URL of a
.BR git (1)
repository changed, stored
.B aur\-view
revisions are potentially invalidated. Specifically,
.BR git\-cat\-file (1)
aborts when given a non-existing object. The offending revision can be
removed manually:
.EX

  $ rm -rf ~/.local/share/aurutils/view/<package>

.XE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur (1),
.BR aur\-sync (1),
.BR vifm (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
