.TH AUR\-FORMAT 1 2022-10-20 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-format \- format AurJson
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur format"
.OP \-f format
.OP \-d delim
.OP \-rv
.RI [ file ... ]
.SY "aur format"
.OP \-\-counts
.OP \-\-json
.OP \-\-gron
.RI [ file ... ]
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-format
takes JSON responses as input and transforms them into shell-readable output, using
.BR sprintf (3)
like formats.
.PP
Suitable inputs include
.BR aur\-query (1),
.BR aur\-pkglist (1)
and
.BR aur\-repo\-parse (1).
Optionally, set operations and sorting can be done on the input.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " FORMAT" "\fR,\fP \-\-format=" FORMAT
The character
.B %
is followed by one of the following flags, corresponding to a package
field. If the field is an array, it is expanded with the delimiter
defined with
.BR \-\-delim .
.IP
.B a
Arch
.IP
.B b
PackageBase
.IP
.B c
CheckDepends (array)
.IP
.B C
Conflicts (array)
.IP
.B d
Description
.IP
.B D
Depends (array)
.IP
.B e
License (array)
.IP
.B g
Groups (array)
.IP
.B M
MakeDepends (array)
.IP
.B n
Name
.IP
.B O
OptDepends (array)
.IP
.B P
Provides (array)
.IP
.B U
URL
.IP
.B v
Version
.IP
.B f
FileName
.IP
.B F
Files
.IP
.B r
DBPath
.IP
.B K
Keywords (array)
.IP
.B L
LastModified
.IP
.B m
Maintainer
.IP
.B o
OutOfDate
.IP
.B p
Popularity
.IP
.B S
FirstSubmitted
.IP
.B w
NumVotes
.
.TP
.BI \-d " SEP" "\fR,\fP \-\-delim=" SEP
The delimiter for expanding arrays. Defaults to a single space.
.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-counts
Return the number of results (packages) for given inputs and their combinations
.RB ( \-\-union ,
.BR \-\-section ).
.
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-json
Return combined results, but do not format them
.RB ( \-\-union ,
.BR \-\-section ).
.
.TP
.BI \-\-sort= KEY "\fR,\fP \-\-union=" KEY "\fR,\fP \-\-isect=" KEY
For a set of results, take the value of KEY for each package and sort,
take the set union, or take the set intersection respectively. For a
list of accepted keys, see
.BR \-\-format .
.
.TP
.B \-\-gron
Format output similar to
.BR gron (1).
.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reverse
Output results in reverse order.
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
If a field is empty, replace it with a hyphen.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is
.B 0
if input was formatted correctly,
.B 1
if an invalid option was specified,
.B 2
if an input file is not found, and
.B 4
on invalid or erroneous input (i.e. the input includes an
.B error
attribute).
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B aur\-format
can be used with
.BR aur\-pkglist (1)
if information is not available from the aurweb RPC interface. For
example, package searches can be done by name and description, but not
by description only.
.PP
The following code demonstrates this by providing a list of all packages with
.I AUR
or
.I Arch User Repository
(case-insensitive) in their description. Any duplicate descriptions are
removed from the results.
.PP
.EX
    aur pkglist \-i | aur format \-f '%n\\t%d\\n' |
        gawk \-F'\\t' 'tolower($2) ~ /(aur|arch user repository)\\>/ { print }' |
        sort \-k2,2 -t $'\\t' \-u |
        sort \-k1,1
.EE
.PP
When searching orphaned packages, an empty maintainer search with
.B aur search \-m ""
should, by definition, give the desired results. However, with a results
limit of 5000 the aurweb RPC interface returns an
.B Too many package results
error. We can again resort to
.BR aur\-pkglist (1):
.PP
.EX
    aur pkglist \-\-info | aur format \-f "%n\\t%m\\n" \-v |
        gawk \-F'\\t' "{ if ($2 != '-') print $1; }"
.EE
.PP
More attributes can be included, and the output reformatted with
.BR aur\-search (1):
.PP
.EX
    aur pkglist \-\-info | aur format \-f "%n\\t%v\\t%d\\t%m\\t%w\\t%p\\t%o\\n" \-v |
        gawk \-F'\\t' "{ if ($4 != '-') print; }" |
        aur search --format-stdin
.EE
.PP
In case only a limited set of targets is needed,
.B aur pkglist \-\-info
can be replaced with
.BR "aur pkglist <pattern> | aur query \-t info" .
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aur\-search (1),
.BR aur\-depends (1),
.BR aur\-repo\-parse (1),
.BR aur\-pkglist (1),
.BR aur\-query (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
