.TH AUR-SRCVER 1 2018-02-01 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-srcver \- list version of VCS packages
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur srcver"
.OP \-\-noprepare
.OP \-\-jobs
.IR pkgbase ...
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-srcver
takes source directories and lists the current
.I pkgver
for each
.IR PKGBUILD .
This is achieved by running
.B "makepkg \-\-skipinteg \-od"
and subsequently sourcing the PKGBUILD. If
.B makepkg
fails on a given package, the resulting output is shown on standard error.
.PP
Source directories can be specifed on the command-line, from standard
input when a hyphen is specified, or from a file with the
.B \-\-arg\-file
option.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a " FILE" "\fR, \fP \-\-arg\-file=" FILE
Read source directories from
.I FILE
instead of the command-line. This argument does not take precedence over
.BR "aur\-srcver \-" .
.
.TP
.BI \-\-buildscript= NAME
Read the package script
.I NAME
instead of the
.I PKGBUILD
default.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-noprepare ", " \-\-no\-prepare
Do not run the prepare() function in the PKGBUILD.
.
.TP
.BI \-j " NUM" "\fR,\fP \-\-jobs=" NUM
Set the amount of
.B makepkg
processes run in parallel. Defaults to 2 plus the amount of processing units.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-margs ", " \-\-makepkg\-args
Additional arguments to pass to
.BR makepkg (8).
.
.TP
.B \-\-null
When reading arguments with
.B \-\-arg\-file
or from standard input, assume delimitation by null bytes instead of newlines.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur (1),
.BR makepkg (8)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
