.TH AUR-SEARCH 1 2022-04-20 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-search \- search for AUR packages
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur search"
.OP \-adimnqrsv
.OP \-k key
.IR keyword ...
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-search
searches the AUR by multiple strings of packages. Requests are done
using
.BR aur\-query (1),
and either use the
.I searchby
or
.I info
interface.
.PP
By default, searches are performed by name and description using the
.I searchby
interface, and the intersection of results is displayed in a brief format.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-any
Show the union of results instead of the intersection. Applies to the
.I searchby
interface.
.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-search
Use the
.I searchby
interface. This is the default.
.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-info
Use the
.I info
interface.
.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-short
Only display package name, version and description.
.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-json ", " \-\-raw
Display results as JSON.
.
.TP
.B \-\-format\-stdin
Format JSON from standard input, assumed to match
.BR aur\-format (1)
output.
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Display more package information.
.
.TP
.BI "\-k " key "\fR,\fP \-\-key=" key
Sort results via a key, defaulting to
.IR Name .
.IP
Valid choices are \fIName\fR, \fIVersion\fR, \fINumVotes\fR,
\fIDescription\fR (for brief output) or \fIName\fR, \fIPackageBase\fR,
\fIVersion\fR, \fIDescription\fR, \fIURL\fR, \fINumVotes\fR,
\fIPopularity\fR, \fIOutOfDate\fR, \fIMaintainer\fR,
\fIFirstSubmitted\fR, \fILastModified\fR (for \fB\-v\fR verbose
output).
.
.SS Search types
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-desc
Search by package name and description.
.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-maintainer
Search by package maintainer.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-submitter
Search by package submitter.
.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name
Search by package name.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-depends ", " \-\-makedepends ", " \-\-optdepends ", " 
.BR \-\-checkdepends ", " \-\-provides ", " \-\-conflicts ", " 
.BR \-\-replaces ", " \-\-groups ", " "\-\-comaintainers"
Search for packages with keywords in
.BR depends ,
.BR makedepends ,
.BR optdepends ,
.BR checkdepends ,
.BR provides ,
.BR conflicts ,
.BR replaces ,
.BR groups
and
.BR comaintainers ,
respectively.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 on valid results, 1 if no results were found, 2 on an
.BR aur\-query (1)
error, or
4 if an AUR error occurred (such as "Too many results").
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur (1),
.BR aur\-query (1),
.BR jq (1),
.BR sort (1),
.BR uniq (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
