.TH AUR-REPO 1 2022-03-12 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-repo \- manage local repositories
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur repo"
.OP \-\-list
.OP \-\-table
.OP \-\-upgrades
.SY "aur repo"
.OP \-c file
.OP \-d name
.OP \-r path
.OP \-F field
.OP \-aqS
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-repo
helps manage local
.RI ( file:// )
.BR pacman (8)
repositories. In particular, it serves to parse repository contents
.RI ( \-\-list ", " \-\-table ),
compare package versions to the AUR
.RI ( \-\-upgrades ),
and list local repository file paths
.RI ( \-\-list\-path ).
.PP
If
.BR pacman.conf (5)
contains only a single local repository,
.B aur\-repo
selects it automatically. If multiple local repositories are
configured, they must specified explicitly with the
.BR \-d
option.
.
.SH OPERATIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-status
Print status information to a standard output, in the following format:
.IP
.RS
.EX
.PP
repo:<repository name>
root:<root of repository>
path:<path of repository>
.PP
.EE
Unless
.B \-\-missing
is specified,
.I root
and
.I path
must be existing paths. This is the default operation.
.RE
.
.TP
.BI \-f " FORMAT" "\fR,\fP \-\-format=" FORMAT
Transform the contents of the local repository with
.BR aur\-format (1).
.
.TP
.BI \-F " FIELD" "\fR,\fP \-\-field=" FIELD "\fR,\fP \-\-attr=" FIELD
List the attribute
.I FIELD
for all packages in the local repository. May be one of
.BR filename ,
.BR name ,
.BR base ,
.BR version ,
.BR desc ,
.BR url ,
.BR license ,
.BR arch ,
.BR builddate ,
.BR packager ,
.BR conflicts ,
.BR provides ,
.BR depends ,
.BR makedepends ,
.BR optdepends ,
or any other valid fields generated by
.BR repo\-add (1).
.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List the contents of a local repository in the following format:
.IP
.BI pkgname \et pkgver \en
.
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-field
List valid fields in a local repository generated by
.BR repo\-add (1).
See
.BR \-\-field .
.
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-path
List the paths of configured local repositories. 
.IP
Unless
.BR \-\-missing
is specified, all paths must exist.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-path
List the resolved path of the selected
.BR pacman (8)
repository. 
.IP
Unless
.BR \-\-missing
is specified, the path must exist.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-repo
List the names of configured local repositories.
.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-table
List the contents of a local repository in the following format:
.IP
.BI pkgname \et depends \et pkgbase \et pkgver \en\c
\&.
.IP
If a package has no dependencies
.B pkgname
is used as
.BR depends ,
otherwise missing values are represented by
.IR \- .
See also
.BR \-\-table
in
.BR aur\-depends (1)
.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-upgrades
Check package updates with
.BR aur\-vercmp (1)
.
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-json
Output repository contents as JSON.
.RB ( aur\-repo\-parse \-\-json ).
.
.TP
.BR \-\-jsonl
Output repository contents as JSON Lines.
.RB ( aur\-repo\-parse \-\-jsonl ).
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " FILE" "\fR,\fP \-\-config=" FILE
Specify an alternate
.BR pacman (8)
configuration file.
.
.TP
.BI \-d " NAME" "\fR,\fP \-\-database=" NAME
The name of a
.BR pacman (8)
repository.
.IP
The repository should have a
.B file://
location, or any other location when using
.BR \-\-sync .
.
.TP
.BI \-r " PATH" "\fR,\fP \-\-root=" PATH
The path to the root of a local 
.BR pacman (8)
repository. 
.
.TP
.BI \-\-delim " SEP"
The delimiter for expanding arrays with
.BR \-\-format .
.
.TP
.BI \-s " REGEXP" "\fR,\fP \-\-search=" REGEXP
Limit results to matches specified by
.IR PATTERN .
.
.TP
.BI \-\-search\-by= FIELD
The field (see
.BR \-\-field )
matched on with
.BR \-\-search .
Defaults to
.BR name .
If
.B FIELD
corresponds to an array value such as
.BR depends ,
at least one value in the array should match.
.
.TP
.BI \-i " PATTERN" "\fR,\fP \-\-ignore=" PATTERN
Ignore results with matches specified by
.IR PATTERN .
.
.TP
.BI \-\-ignore\-by= FIELD
The field matched on witch
.BR \-\-ignore .
Defaults to
.BR name .
.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Use
.B "aur\-vercmp \-\-all"
when checking for upgrades. Implies
.BR \-\-upgrades .
.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Only print package names when listing the repository
.RB ( \-\-list )
or checking for upgrades
.RB ( \-\-upgrades ).
.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-sync
Query repositories in
.BI DBPATH /sync
(defaults to
.BR /var/lib/pacman/sync )
instead of by their
.B file://
path.
.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-missing
Do not require paths to exist with
.BR \-\-status ,
.BR \-\-path 
and
.BR \-\-list\-path .
.
.B
.SH EXAMPLES
List information on configured local repositories:
.PP
.EX
  $ aur repo --repo-list | while read -r repo; do 
        printf '[%s]\\n' "$repo"
        pacconf --repo="$repo"
    done
.EE
.PP
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUR_REPO
The name of a pacman repository, see
.BR \-d .
.
.TP
.B AUR_DBROOT
The path to the root of a local repository, see
.BR \-r .
.
.TP
.B AUR_DBEXT
The extension of the local repository. Defaults to
.BR .db .
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur (1),
.BR aur\-depends (1),
.BR aur\-vercmp (1),
.BR pacman.conf (5),
.BR pacman (8)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
