.TH AUR\-REPO\-FILTER 1 2019-03-17 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aur\-repo\-filter \- filter packages in the Arch Linux repositories
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "aur repo\-filter"
.OP \-a
.OP \-d database
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aur\-repo\-filter
checks if
.I package[<cmp><version>]
is satisfied by a package using
.BR "pacsift \-\-satisfies".
Strings are taken from standard input. The package is printed to
standard output if found.  If the package is provided by a package of
a different name, the latter is printed to standard error.
.PP
By default, the Arch Linux repositories
.BR core ,
.BR extra ,
.BR testing ,
.BR community ,
.BR community\-testing ,
.BR multilib ,
and
.BR multilib\-testing
repositories are checked, though other repositories may be specified.
.PP
.RE
.I <cmp>
may be any of the following:
"=", "<", "<=", ">", ">=". See
.BR pacsift (1)
for details.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all ", " \-\-sync
Query all available pacman repositories.
.RB ( "pacsift " \-\-sync )
.
.TP
.BI \-d " NAME" "\fR,\fP \-\-database=" NAME "\fR,\fP \-\-repo=" NAME
Restrict output to the pacman repository
.IR NAME .
Multiple repositories can be specified by repeating this argument.
.
.TP
.BI \-\-sysroot= PATH
Set an alternate system root. See
.BR pacutils\-sysroot (7).
.
.TP
.BI \-\-config= PATH
Set an alternate
.BR pacman.conf (5)
file path.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aur (1),
.BR pacinfo (1),
.BR pacsift (1),
.BR pacman.conf (5),
.BR pacutils\-sysroot (7)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
.
.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
