.TH AURBUILD_CHROOT 1 2017-09-23 AURUTILS
.SH NAME
aurbuild_chroot \- build packages to a local repository inside a chroot

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY aurbuild_chroot
.OP \-C pacman_conf
.OP \-D directory
.OP \-M makepkg_conf
.OP \-U database
.OP \--
.OP "makechrootpkg args"
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
Build packages in a chroot, adding the results to a local
repository (see also \fIaurbuild(1)\fR).

The current directory is assumed to contain the PKGBUILD and
other sources for the package to be built from.

.SH OPTIONS
All arguments after -- are passed to \fImakechrootpkg\fR.

.B \-C
.RS
The \fIpacman.conf\fR file to be used in the chroot. Defaults to
\fIpacman-extra.conf\fR from devtools.
.RE

.B \-D
.RS
The chroot directory to build in. If none is specified,
\fI/var/lib/aurbuild/<machine>\fR is used, where \fImachine\fR
is determined by uname.
.RE

.B \-M
.RS
The makepkg.conf file to be used in the chroot. Defaults to
\fImakepkg-<machine>.conf\fR from devtools.
.RE

.B \-U
.RS
The name of the pacman database.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.SS Building with \fBmakechrootpkg\fR
The template (or \fIroot\fR) container is upgraded with \fIpacman
-Syu\fR prior to building. This is done as the \fI$USER\fR container
is copied from the \fIroot\fR container before each build
(\fImakechrootpkg -c\fR).

Changes to the pacman database are \fBnot\fR propagated from the
container to the local system. Packages must be installed and updated
separately, typically through \fIpacman -Syu <package_name>\fR.

Package conflicts inside the container must be solved manually, as
\fBmakechrootpkg\fR uses \fImakepkg --confirm -s\fR internally. For
example, to replace \fBgcc\fR with \fBgcc-multilib\fR, run \fIarch-nspawn
/var/lib/aurbuild/root pacman -S gcc-multilib\fR as root.

Signature verification requires that \fBgpg2\fR(1) configuration is
stored in \fI~/.gnupg\fR. See Github issue #151 for details.

.SS Avoiding password prompts
makepkg must be run as a regular user as of version 4.2, with
privileged operations done via \fIsudo\fR. As such, \fIaurbuild\fR can
not be run directly as root. To avoid password prompts,
\fBsudoers\fR(5) can be used instead.

For example:
.EX

  %build localhost = (root) NOPASSWD: SETENV: /usr/bin/makechrootpkg
  %build localhost = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/arch-nspawn

.EE
Note that variables specified on the sudo command line (such as
\fIPKGDEST\fR by \fBaurbuild\fR) depend on sudo policy; see
\fBsudo\fR(8) and \fBsudoers\fR(5).

.SS Building for a different architecture
To build packages for a different architecture, prepend \fBsetarch
<arch>\fR to the aurbuild command line. The target architecture must
both be supported by the current system (run \fIsetarch --list\fR for an
approximation) and have a respective \fImakepkg.conf\fR file available
in \fI/usr/share/devtools\fR (such as
\fI/usr/share/devtools/makepkg-i686.conf\fR for \fIi686\fR).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aurbuild (1),
.BR pacconf (1),
.BR pacman (1),
.BR makepkg.conf (5),
.BR pacman.conf (5),
.BR aurutils (7),
.BR setarch (8)

.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
