.TH AURSYNC 1 2016-12-25 AURUTILS
.SH Name
aursync \- download and build aur packages automatically

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY aursync
.OP \-c
.OP \-B newdir
.OP \-u
.OP \-fknstT
.OP pkgname...
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
Download and build packages automatically to a local
repository. Package names serve as arguments.

If \fIvifm \fRis installed, the downloaded files are shown using vifm
and can be edited. If not, the files are shown in \fIless\fR, or
\fI$PAGER\fR if configured.

.SH OPTIONS
.B \-c, --chroot
.RS
Build packages with makechrootpkg. (\fIaurbuild -c\fR)
.RE

.B \-s, --sign
.RS
Sign built packages and the database with gpg. (\fIaurbuild -s\fR)
.RE

.B \-t, --tar
.RS
Download AUR snapshots (\fI.tar.gz\fR) instead of cloning git
directories.
.RE

.B \-u, --update
.RS
Update all AUR packages in a local repository that are out-of-date.
.RE

.B \--ignore
.RS
Skip packages in a specified file.
.RE

.B \--no-ver
.RS
Disable version checking for packages in the queue.
.RE

.B \--no-view
.RS
Do not view downloaded files before building.
.RE

.B \--repo
.RS
Use the specified repository instead of an interactive selection.
.RE

.B \--root
.RS
The location of the repository root. Defaults to the \fIServer\fR
value of the configured repository.
.RE

.SS makepkg
The default set of options is \fImakepkg -Lcrs\fR.

.B \-f, --force
.RS
Overwrite built packages. (\fImakepkg -f\fR)
.RE

.B \-k, --keep
.RS
Do not remove dependencies installed by makepkg. (unset \fImakepkg
-r\fR)
.RE

.B \-n
.RS
Do not wait for user input. (\fImakepkg --noconfirm\fR)
.RE

.SS makechrootpkg
The default set of options is \fImakechrootpkg -cnu\fR.

.B \-B, --bind
.RS
Bind a directory read-only. (\fImakechrootpkg -D\fR)
.RE

.B \-T, --temp
.RS
Build in a temporary directory. (\fImakechrootpkg -T\fR)
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B AURDEST
.RS
Determines where build files will be cloned (default:
\fI$XDG_CACHE_HOME/aursync\fR). This must be an absolute path.
.RE

.B TMPDIR
.RS
Parent directory for temporary files.
.RE

.SH NOTES
When version checks are enabled (\fI--nover\fR is not specified),
build files are only retrieved if the remote (RPC) version is newer
than a version in the pacman database. Checks assume there are no
mismatches between \fI.SRCINFO\fR and \fIPKGBUILD\fR files.

Architecture-specific depends (as introduced with pacman 4.2) are
merged with regular depends in RPC queries. \fBaursync \fRworkarounds
this by stripping the \fIlib32- \fRsuffix from packages and removing
\fIgcc-multilib \fRif the i686 architecture is detected.

\fItar\fR snapshots are extracted to the \fI$AURDEST/snapshot\fR
directory, in order to avoid conflicts with git.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aria2c (1),
.BR aurbuild (1),
.BR aurchain (1),
.BR aurcheck (1),
.BR aursearch (1),
.BR aursift (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR jq (1),
.BR less (1),
.BR pacconf (1),
.BR parallel (1),
.BR vifm (1),
.BR pacman.conf (5),
.BR aurutils (7)

.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME

.\" vim: set textwidth=72:
