.TH AURSYNC 1 2016-04-18 AURUTILS
.SH Name
aursync \- download and build aur packages automatically

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aursync
.OP \-cdktuvw
.OP \--
.OP \-DfLnT
.OP pkgname...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Downloads and builds packages automatically using aurbuild. The
arguments are package names.
.P
In case vifm is installed, the downloaded files are shown using vifm
and can be edited. If vifm is not installed, the files are shown in
less or $PAGER if configured.

.SH OPTIONS
.B \-c
.RS
Build packages in an nspawn container. (\fIaurbuild -c\fR)
.RE

.B \-d
.RS
Do not resolve dependencies.
.RE

.B \-k
.RS
Do not view downloaded files before building.
.RE

.B \-t
.RS
Download the PKGBUILDs using aria instead of git.
.RE

.B \-u
.RS
Update AUR packages in a local repository.
.RE

.B \-v
.RS
Disable version checking for packages in the queue.
.RE

.B \-w
.RS
Only download source files, do not build anything.
.RE

.SS makepkg
.P
.B \-f
.RS
Overwrite built packages. (\fImakepkg -f\fR)
.RE

.B \-L
.RS
Save makepkg output. (\fImakepkg -L\fR)
.RE

.B \-n
.RS
Do not wait for user input (\fImakepkg --noconfirm\fR)
.RE

.SS makechrootpkg
.P
.B \-n
.RS
Check a built package with namcap. (\fImakechrootpkg -n\fR)
.RE

.B \-D
.RS
Bind a directory read-only. (\fImakechrootpkg -D\fR)
.RE

.B \-T
.RS
Build in a temporary directory. (\fImakechrootpkg -T\fR)
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vifm (1),
.BR less (1),
.BR aria2c (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR aurbuild (1),
.BR aurchain (1),
.BR aursift (1),
.BR aursearch (1),
.BR repofind (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT https://github.com/AladW
Alad Wenter
.ME
